welcome back to VLSI classes where we
continue with the fabrication process
tuning so in the previous class we
discussed about en masse and P will
process today we will start with the
n-well process so in P n-ville process
first you will be having a P substrate
wafer you will be having a P substrate
wafer in this P substrate wafer you will
create a Yonville
we will create a en well and in the CN
well you are going to create two sub or
my new tepee wells which form the P Mo's
P plus wells which forms the P Mo's in
his P substrate Hughes created two tiny
anvils to form en masse two tiny an
anvil to form in Mo's the same steps are
given only thing is in the previous case
that is using in prevail process you
were using yun substrate and you created
P Mo's here you will be using P
substrate and you'll be creating n Mo's
that's all so you'll be having all the
diffusion like P plus diffusion n plus
diffusion then contact cuts will be
formed deposition of patterned and over
glass so like this all the steps will be
remains the same look at this the same
thing right so you have P substrate here
and you have formed n plus 1 n plus 1
this is y NC n well formation so it is P
plus P plus this is P mas the first one
is P Mo's then X minus y n Mo's that's
all so this is also the connection of
inverter where this bulk and the source
are interconnected given to be VDD bulk
and source are connected and it is given
to VSS this is for en masse and this is
for weak P Mo's gates are interconnected
given to V in and the drains are
interconnected and given to VSS okay so
if you want me to repeat the circuit
diagram so look at this you have P Mo's
and this is n Mo's this is gate of P
Mo's source of P Mo's drain of P Mo's
Gate of en masse source sorry this is
drain of en masse and source of generous
I'll interconnect these to drain and
drain this is given to VDD and this is
given to VSS Gate are interconnected and
given to V in brain is connected to V
out so V n again look at this gates are
interconnected and given to V in brains
are interconnected given to V out I told
you the bulk will be connected to VSS so
which bulb the bulk will be connected to
source so it is connected to source here
the bulk is connected to source the same
thing you are connecting to source so
this is about yin well process this is
about end well process now there is a
disadvantage in Yonville process there
is a disadvantage in nml process what is
that
structure of envel envelopes s not only
in Yonville both in PL and yen well
there is a disadvantage
what is that disadvantages so this is
yen Ville so this is y n type material
this is p-type material and this is
p-type material and this is y n type
material now look at this there is a
formation of pnp and npn here you have
the formation of pnp and npn here PNP is
a BJT transistor NPN is also a BJT
transistor that is these two transistor
will be connected such that they get
latched up that is they won't allow any
current to flow here they won't allow
any current to flow here they lock the
system they lock the system they lock
this inverter okay so this locking or
this phenomena will damage the device or
it will not allow the allow the device
to work accordingly so this phenomena is
called twin and sorry larger problem
this is called larger problem to avoid
this larger problem
to avoid this flash a problem we have
come up with a solution which is called
a twin tub process to in tap process so
what is this twin turret winter process
sorry so what is this winter process in
winter process you will be having
epitaxial layer you will be having an
epitaxial layer so what is this
epitaxial layer it is a pure insulating
layer it is an insulating layer it will
not allow any conduction in between and
in this epitaxial layer you will grow an
in well you will grow a PL and in yen
value develop en moss in P well you
develop P Mo's so here sorry n MOS so
here you develop yen Moss here you
develop pima's okay so this is the
epitaxial layer this is the epitaxial
layer in this epitaxially
you will grow pima's and here you will
grow en masse now look at this general
and people are separated by epitaxial
layer which is an insulating layer now
there is no conduction between any of
these two so both P Mo's and n Mo's are
operated individually they're operated
individually they are not interconnected
with each of them they are not
interconnected with each of them hence
we are free from latch up problem hence
we are free from latch up problem so
this is about CMOS process
the last one is by CMOS technology I
told you what what is bi CMOS technology
so if I combine BJT with N Mo's and P
Mo's then we call it as bi CMOS
technology if you have only n Mo's and P
Mo's then it is called CMOS technology
then it is called CMOS technology in
CMOS technology why do we need this bi
CMOS technology already we have CMOS
technology the thing is there are few
advantages in bipolar technology and
there are few disadvantages and
advantages in CMOS technology that is we
have both pros and cons in both the
technology so we are going to combine
them to pick up the advantages whatever
we require say for example look at this
so it has high power dissipation which
is undisciplined äj-- okay next no
packing density which is a disadvantage
hang again okay
so low input impedance advantage okay
so high output drive current very very
advantage high GM advantage okay
so high frequency at low current
advantage so like this there are
advantages and also disadvantages coming
to the limitations so high delay
sensitive load disadvantage
okay so high packing density advantage
high noise margin advantage scalable
threshold advantage so there are
advantages here and also disadvantages
like low output drive current low GM so
these are all the disadvantages here so
I have to overcome this disadvantage
using the bipolar advantages therefore I
design the circuits using CMOS and BJT
which we call it as bi CMOS technology
so how do you write this bi CMOS
technology behind is bipolar CMOS is
complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor
so bi represents bipolar technology now
this is a structure of BJT so you don't
have different steps here only thing is
you have to explain what is this
structure so this is the buried
substrate structure but buried
sub-collector structure okay it is an
insulating layer and this is the well of
which is Yonville and in this yen value
form P well that is P region which is
base region so it is so in this area you
are adding little more dopant for doping
concentration increasing the doping
concentration so that it is
interconnected with base and you form a
connection here so this is n-type
material this is the n-type material
that forms emitter and this is the
collector because this is y n well you
need n collector here so this is there
also in n-type material and you have
increased the concentration to form the
collector now look at this this is
collector which is connected to n
complete well it means it is having the
largest area and this is the emitter
which is having less area and it has
high concentration and this is the base
region this is the base region which is
having moderate area here okay
so if you just look it into the top you
it looks somewhat like this so you will
be having a base connection
this is the emitter this is the base
connection this is the emitter
connection and this is the collector
connection collector is having larger
area so you have to contact touch here
okay
so this is about fabrication of bi CMOS
technology so this is what fabrication
says about
thank you for watching this video if you
have any doubts you can write me back to
my mail id
please like the video share with your
friends and subscribe to my channel
thank you